TOTAL: 20 points





(2 points) Selection and projection query: pick one query of this category and provide an interface
for the user to specify the selection condition and the attributes to be returned.
- Rerun with another constant






(1 point) Join query: pick one query of this category and provide an interface for the user to choose
this query.








(2 point) Division query: pick one query of this category and provide an interface for the user to
choose this query.
- Insert a new tuple and rerun





(2 point) Aggregation query: pick one query that requires the use of aggregation (min, max,
average, or count are all fine).
- Rerun with a different aggregation





(4 points) Nested aggregation with group-by: pick one query that finds the average for each group
and then finds either the minimum or maximum across all those averages. Provide an interface for
the user to specify whether the minimum or maximum is requested.
- Show query or view (2)
- Rerun with a different aggregation (2)





(4 point) Delete operation: implement a delete operation. Provide an interface for the user to
specify some input for the deletion operation. Include an interface for the user to display the
relation instance after the operation.
- Case 1 - deletion with cascades. Student to explain the theory of cascading and show their
code that implements this (2)
o Example: customer with their associated accounts. If you delete a customer from
the database, it makes sense to also delete the associated account
- Case 2 – explain any delete without cascading (you do not have to implement this, but you
will need to provide a deletion example within your product that does not require
cascading)





(2 points) Update operation: implement a constraint using the check statement. Provide an
interface for the user to specify some input for the update operation. Some input values would
successfully satisfy a constraint while others would fail. Provide an interface for the user to display
the relation after the operation.
- Note that MySQL 5.5 does not support the Check constraint. If your team is using MySQL
5.5, keep the check in the SQL statement, but actually do the check at the application level
(and comment it in the code).
- Update a value that violates some constraint (1)
- Correct the value and update again (1)




(3 points) Graphical user interface: create an easy to use GUI that allows the users to execute all the
above operations and transactions. Use the menu facility provided by the graphics environment you
use to define appropriate menus and submenus. Make sure to design your interface in such a way
that all the error messages appear in separate pop-up boxes, or in a designated area of the main
window, so that they do not interfere with the other activities. Whenever user input is requested,
make sure that there is sufficient type checking.
- Type checking
- Location of error messages
- Look of GUI





(Bonus Points) Extra features: Create unique features that your application supports. You can really
be creative about this. Some examples are using Bootstrap to prettify your UI, implementing
Triggers and Privileges in the database, using any cloud-based databases. See the marking scheme
for more examples and the breakdown.
Keep in mind these bonus points have a HIGH standard to meet. Out of all the groups only a small
handful will receive a bonus point, and maybe one or two groups will receive two bonus points. 